Blockchain is a software innovation for establishing digital trust between users facilitating transactions of value, over a network. The blockchain enables trust to be distributed throughout a network, without the need for a central intermediary to track, verify and approve the digital exchange of value. The notion of authorizing trust from a central intermediary currently underpins both private and government institutional structures, however this is proving to be costly, slow, and also vulnerable to attack. blockchain overcomes these issues by operating as a decentralized distributed database, maintaining a continuously growing list of records called blocks. Although blockchain technology is still an emergent one, current applications show it can be better, more efficient and more secure than traditional systems, which is why banks and governments globally are beginning to experiment with it.
Electricity is a critical enabler. The current electrification state of the global population is at 84%. Advanced and transitional economies require secure access to modern sources of energy, to underpin their development and growing prosperity. In developing countries, access to affordable and reliable energy is fundamental to reducing poverty, improving health, increasing productivity, enhancing competitiveness and promoting economic growth. Hundreds of millions of people have attained modern energy access over the last two decades through distribution networks, especially in China and India. This means that more people on Earth than ever before are now connected to ever-growing and interconnected electricity networks. This creates an enormous appetite for innovative new energy peer-to-peer (P2P) energy transaction platforms.
Pinet offers a decentralized, transparent, and efficient future for global energy management. Join the presale and become part of a movement to reshape how energy is produced, traded, and consumed. In today’s renewable energy certificate (REC) markets, there is unnecessary complexity and data challenges. The market lacks transparency, and comes with it the friction of having to manage all of the REC procurement processes such as counterparty KYC, contracting, payment and settlement processes manually. Renewable energy generators lack price transparency and can spend weeks supporting the REC sales process, while Businesses and Corporations may need to go through market intermediaries to buy RECs as in most cases they are unlikely to have a direct relationship with renewable energy generators or their own registry accounts to buy and retire RECs. Brokers and traders who undertake a significant amount of REC transactions in the market also need a more efficient way to trade and report on behalf of their customers as well as enhance their data management and collection processes related to their REC trading portfolio.
